STRICKLAND: Good morning.

Marsha is on her way. She called from the car phone I think. It sounded like the car phone, to let us know that she would be delayed.

I would like to welcome two people who haven't been with us before.

Suzanne Clewell, we're delighted to have you with us today. Suzanne, would you tell us a little bit about what you do?

CLEWELL: Yes. I'm the Coordinator for Reading Language Arts with the Montgomery County Public Schools which is the suburban district surrounding Washington. We have 173 schools and 25 elementary schools.

It's great to be here.

STRICKLAND: And I'll skip over to another member of the committee, but for her, this is her first meeting, too, Judith Langer. I think we all know her work, if we didn't know her.

Judith.

LANGER: Hello. I'm delighted to be here.

I have carefully read and heard about all of the things that the group has discussed up until now.

I'm a Professor of Education at the University of Albany, the State University of New York. And I'm also the Director of the National Research Center on English Learning and Achievement.

STRICKLAND: Her mother wrote the stances.

(Laughter)

KAPINUS:Dorothy, I might add also that Judith probably has more history with NAEP than just about that I know of, you know, NAEP and reading.

STRICKLAND: Yes, yes. We will really turn to you as a very important resource, Judith.

And we have a new member, Gloria Lopez Gutierrez.

And, Gloria, tell us a little bit about yourself.

GUTIERREZ: Well, I'm a bilingual teacher in the San Rafael City Schools, a small district in Marin County, actually the largest district in Marin County.

I'll check what the population is there. Our student population, I don't know, but it's certainly under 10,000. I would say something like 7,000 or 8,000, a small district.

I'm a third grade teacher. I'm a parent of a soon-to-be fourth grade student.

STRICKLAND: Well, we all serve many roles.

(Laughter)

STRICKLAND: And that's the beauty of it, all the different perspectives.

David, some opening remarks.

MANDEL: Well, we're here and moving forward.

(Laughter)