DOSSEY: I think we've reached 9:00 a.m. And it's probably time that we get the hearing underway.

I would like to welcome everybody on the part of the Department of Education, the Council of Chief State School Officers, and members of the committee.

And I think it might be good to just go around the table and introduce ourselves, since there are some members of our committee here for the first time.

And maybe, we'll just start in the corner and have everyone introduce themselves at the table.

(Whereupon, the introductions took place.)

DOSSEY: Okay. We'll begin this morning with a report by Gary Phillips of the U.S. Department of Education on the status of the National Math Test initiative at the moment.

Gary.

PHILLIPS: Thank you.

Well, I also want to welcome you here and welcome our guests. This is a very important meeting for us.

It's the first public hearing of the Math Committee. I think there will be one other public hearing as well later on in the process. And there will be two as well for the reading.

We've had about five or six public meetings on the test overall.

But these are very important meetings for us. They give us an opportunity to hear from you and to think through what you say. And what you do say does affect policy.

We will listen carefully to what you have to say, both the Math Committee and the Department of Education on a broader level.

And what we've done in the past, the transcripts of the meetings and the summaries and the minutes, we take those back.

And we go over them. We think it through. We see how what we're doing is consistent with what you would like us to do.

And, you know, in general, I think we have a real good policy here, this National Test. I think it is a good idea. And it's the right time.

But we want to have you to buy into it, to understand it, to support it. And we will make whatever modifications that we need to, you know, satisfy you as best as possible.

So these are very important meetings for us. And we appreciate your coming here to give us your comments.

Just in general, I just want you to know that this is not -- this whole activity is really not just to create a new test.

There are many good tests out there. Some not so good, but many very good tests out there.

This is really not the whole idea of this. It's not just to create a new test.

The idea of this or the purpose of it is to improve student learning. That's the whole thing.

And how does this work? Well, I think it will work by just the presence of this test, I believe, will energize the American educational system, just being there, not to mention the information that it will provide, but it will energize the American educational system.

And I think it will serve as a scaffold that will stimulate other activities that will surround it.

The whole idea here is to empower teachers and parents with information that they don't currently have.

When we give reports from the TIMSS results or from the NAEP results which are national surveys, policy makers use that information.

They consider it to be important. They use it for policy purposes. They make decisions.

Not a single teacher, not a single parent or student has that information for themselves.

No teacher knows what their students do on the NAEP test, for example, no parent, no student.

The idea here is to empower parents and teachers with information they don't currently have.

This test also really is the next logical step in the standards reform movement, the National Content Standards Reform Movement. NCTM standards have been around now for almost 10 years.

And other associations have developed standards in reading and other areas.

Those have been considered to be successful. But again, a lot of the work on the standards movement are really at the policy level, at the national, the state, maybe the district level.

There hasn't been a lot of penetration down into the classroom. This test, part of what this test will do, I think, will take national standards and move them down into the classroom.

So for the first time, parents and students and teachers will know how they stack up against national standards and international standards as well.

Another aspect of this whole activity, again from a policy point of view, is that we want to set -- the whole thrust of this is to set the same high expectations for all students.

